The following is an excerpt from Cryptonomicon, a novel by Neal Stephenson, written in 1999:

"Students were not allowed to touch the organ until they were proficient at the piano, and when this was explained to Lawrence Pritchard Waterhouse,
he taught himself, in three weeks, how to play a Bach fugue, and signed up for organ lessons. Since he was only five years old at the time,
he was unable to reach both the manuals and the pedals, and had to play standing-or rather strolling, from pedal to pedal.

When Lawrence was twelve, the organ broke down. That paper mill family had not left any endowment for maintenance, so the math teacher decided to have
a crack at it. He was in poor health and required a nimble assistant: Lawrence, who helped him open up the hood of the thing.

For the first time in all those years, the boy saw what had been happening when he had been pressing those keys.

For each stop-each timbre, or type of sound, that the organ could make (viz. blockflote, trumpet, piccolo)-there was a separate row of pipes,
arranged in a line from long to short. Long pipes made low notes, short high. The tops of the pipes defined a graph: not a straight line but an
upwardtending curve. The organist/math teacher sat down with a few loose pipes, a pencil, and paper, and helped Lawrence figure out why. When Lawrence
understood, it was as if the math teacher had suddenly played the good part of Bach's Fantasia and Fugue in G Minor on a pipe organ the size of the
Spiral Nebula in Andromeda-the part where Uncle Johann dissects the architecture of the Universe in one merciless descending ever-mutating chord, as if
his foot is thrusting through skidding layers of garbage until it finally strikes bedrock. In particular, the final steps of the organist's explanation
were like a falcon's dive through layer after layer of pretense and illusion, thrilling or sickening or confusing depending on what you were. The heavens
were riven open. Lawrence glimpsed choirs of angels ranking off into geometrical infinity."

Cryptonomicon combines fictional characters with Stephenson's take on actual historical individuals, like Alan Turing, and tells its story across two
generations simultaneously, linking the lives of those living during World War II and those living in the 'present' (the 1990's).
It is a tale of ciphers, the people who write them, and the people who break them.